[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In our last conversation
with Elena Tonetti-Vladimirova,
we spoke of the profound
impact of the circumstances
of our birth on the
rest of our lives.
But when we met, we began
chatting off camera,
and I asked her if, as
a native of Siberia,
if she was aware of
the Anastasia story.
Her face became
very quiet, and she
said there was much
more to the story.
I had to know the
rest of the story,
so we put a tape in, and she
told us about what she feels
was the inspiration for Vladimir
Megré's series of books about
a woman named Anastasia.
The books became known as
the "Ringing Cedar" series.
>> I'm happy for this
opportunity to speak about it,
because usually at the
conferences and workshops,
I'm focused on what I'm doing.
And here, we can
just have a lovely--
>> Conversation.
>> --frank-- yeah.
I'd love to send the
message out there.
The books are--
>> First of all, you're from--
>> I am from Siberia.
>> And what is the
name of the village?
>> The name of
the-- it's the city.
It's called Yekaterinburg.
And in those times when
the whole story began,
it was called Sverdlovsk.
>> "Svetlovska."
>> Sverdlovsk.
Yeah.
But now since perestroika,
they renamed everything,
so it's called
Yekaterinburg now.
So the whole story began
in 1972 with a group
of five men, young graduates
from university in Sverdlovsk.
They were physicists.
And that was the
time when they all
got married at the same time,
and their wives got pregnant,
and they wanted a place to live.
At that time, the
housing shortage
was so severe in Russia.
It was all allocated
by the government.
And people had to wait
for dozens of years
and be, you know, in line
at their plant or factory
and have to work in that
same place in order to--
for their turn to
come up to receive
that government-allocated flat.
So these kids decided to
do something about it,
because they didn't want to
live in the same apartment
with their grandparents.
And it's like, apartment is
that size, of course, you know?
It was really tight in there.
So the whole story began from
these young families just
wanting a place to live.
And they came up with
this amazing, amazing
just phantom exchange.
They would just bluff.
They would go to the factory
and say, if you give us workers,
we will give you 10 apartments
in the future building.
They would go to a
different factory
and say, if you
give us machinery,
we will give you 15 apartments
in the next building
that we're building.
So they created this phantom
promise of the future building
of many apartments.
That's the only kind there was.
And lots of factories and
plants forwarded their forces,
equipment there, everything
under the future promise
of these apartments.
Because in Russia,
there was no houses.
It was only those big,
huge barracks, you know?
It's like, all 11
time zones in Russia.
It's those five
types of barracks.
>> Efficient housing.
>> Yeah.
Efficient housing.
Yeah.
So they got it.
They did it.
The first building was built.
But as they were doing it,
the whole team came into place.
Like, brainstorming team.
So they started with five
people, but by the time
the first building was finished,
the team was over 5,000.
And they just decided
to keep going.
Let's just keep going.
And they built the whole
village in the outskirts
of Yekaterinburg.
The city government just gave
them a big chunk of land,
and they developed
it completely.
Actually, I have the
whole story on my website.
It's called How
Dreams Come True.
So anybody can read--
>> Look at how that
village came to be.
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
>> But at some point, there
was already 30,000 people.
Actually over 30,000 people.
And when the buildings
were in place
and the team was still a very
well loved, brainstorming
mechanism of brilliant,
intelligent, very
capable young people, they
thought, what's the next thing?
Now that we have the roof over
our head, what do we do next?
And in Russia, there is
this institution of dachas.
Family has a dacha.
It's very simple, because
villages were destroyed.
And all the villages were
running away into the city.
So it's just those
dilapidated country houses.
So any family, for
about a monthly salary,
could afford buying this shack.
>> A little shack with land.
>> With land.
>> Yes.
>> That's the thing, with land.
And they would fix it
up to their own liking,
to their own capacity, and just
play with the dirt, you know?
Get your fingers in the dirt.
>> And this is where you go on
weekends or maybe for a part
of your summer vacation.
>> Weekends, I was
sent all my childhood.
That's where I spent all my
summer and winter breaks,
with my grandmother and all the
other little kids, you know,
sent away from the
city to this place.
But this community, they
were basically all graduates
from Yekaterinburg
University, colleges.
All their families
were somewhere else,
so they didn't really have
that institution of babushkas
to play with their kids.
And they all started
having children,
because now that they
had a place of their own,
they just wanted to have babies.
Because normally, Russian
family has just one child,
and here they have two,
three, four children.
>> And that was because of the
limitation of space for one,
right?
Yes.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
There is physically
nowhere to put the crib.
>> Right.
>> You know, you can't really be
homeless in Siberia in winter,
so you have to have a physical
square footage to put that
baby.
So I growing up never even
knew anybody who had siblings.
>> Oh.
>> And then that
community, all of a sudden,
there is baby boom.
And when those kids grew up--
and some of them
already had kids,
you know, out of 30,000 people.
So the basic population of
children in the community
was in their teens.
They bought a whole village
and gave that village
as a project to
teenagers to play with.
Just--
[LAUGH]
--here.
Do with it what you want.
And the thing is
that nobody really
knew how to grow anything,
how to live on the land,
because it was already a
few generations of people
completely disconnected
through revolution,
through World War I, World
War II, Stalin's repressions.
Basically, everybody
who knew who
had the wisdom, the deep
connection with the nature,
with the dirt, you know, that
kind of dirt that grows things,
they were gone.
They were gone.
It was a whole generation
of people in Russia
who did not know
how to grow food.
So basically, those
kids were coming up
with all these wonderful
and beautiful ideas.
How to talk to seeds,
how to make them
work, because the
seeds were ruined.
The whole agriculture
was in pieces in Russia.
All these years, the
Siberian agriculture
was governed from Moscow.
So from Moscow, they
would get a signal
when to plant, when to harvest,
when to pull the weeds.
[LAUGH]
>> Were they supplied the
seeds by the government?
Or was it still--
>> No, no, no.
It was all government.
Owned government.
So everybody was working
for the government and--
>> Growing the same varieties,
the same kind of crops.
>> Yes.
And the crops were
basically destroyed
through the Khrushchev
era when he just decided
to grow corn everywhere.
>> Khrushchev.
In the US, I think--
yeah.
Our pronunciation, "crew-shev,"
just in case anyone
doesn't understand that.
Yeah.
>> Yeah.
The culture of growing
food was destroyed.
So of course, those teenagers
had adult supervision
to help them know how
to work the power tools,
how to build things,
how to fix the houses.
But basically,
they were designing
a way of living together,
living on Earth,
and coming up with amazing
stories over the campfire.
And you know, all this was
part of their dream world
that they were creating.
So actually, my
first documentary
is called "How
Dreams Come True."
The text on my website is the
script for that documentary.
So when I got
involved, it was '85.
So much later when
all the buildings
were in place already.
I was at that time working in
Moscow with Igor Charkovsky,
the pioneer of the
water birth concept,
working with babies and
mamas and discovering how we
can minimize the birth trauma.
But my husband was the
leader of this movement
that was called the game.
the game was a
brainstorming technology.
He worked with big
organizations and institutions.
The average size of participants
in the game was 300.
And it goes for seven
days, somewhere out
of town in some kind of
really secluded area.
>> And who participates
in the game?
>> Organizations.
It was different organizations
all over the country
where we're traveling
all the time,
that we're ordering the game
as a way of finding solution.
Basically in Russia at
that time in the '80s,
every single organization
was in deep, deep crisis.
Economical, political,
every which way.
And they were trying to figure
out how to live, you know?
How to survive as organization.
So they would order this
game that basically it
started as a
business game, but it
became more and more of a big
therapy session, you know?
With the whole organization
that involves 300 people.
And when you work
with the organization,
you can't help notice
that it's not just
the organization's people.
So very fast, it moved from
just the business kind of game
into what I call
the Magic Theater.
It was actually an
amazing experience.
And we were conducting at
least two games a month all
over the country.
So it takes a week
to prepare, a week
to play, a week to integrate--
>> I have a question.
This is pre-perestroika.
>> Yeah.
>> And so how did the
government respond to the game?
>> The government at this point
was in such overdrive that
basically, we were doing
everything we wanted to do
and got away with everything.
>> Because they had
other fish to fry.
>> There was no
rules against this.
They didn't come up
with rules against it.
Like, I was delivering
babies in the Black Sea
with wild dolphins in
the middle of nowhere
and getting away with that,
because there was no rules.
There was no, you know, law
that you cannot do that,
because that did not exist
as far as the government
concerned.
And they were not looking
for the government permission
at this point, you know?
>> I just wondered if they
had heard wind of it and tried
to stop it.
>> Yeah.
No.
It never happened.
In fact, one of the last
games that I participated
was ordered by Moscow municipal,
but by the mayor of Moscow.
So we played the game
with Moscow government.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah.
That was probably the
fanciest game with best food--
[LAUGHTER]
--ever.
>> And some profound effects
would come out of these games.
>> Yeah.
And it was spreading fast.
And I believe that
that work also
was a big piece in taking
down that whole Soviet regime,
because organizations
were really
looking for something that
makes sense, and were refusing
to do what didn't make sense.
So 10 years of that activity
really, really made a dent
at that time.
>> So you went to the mid '90s.
No, from--
>> Well, I am still--
with you, I am
still in mid '80s.
>> Mid '80s.
OK.
>> So at that time, the
community going back,
it's like through me,
the two got married,
that community building movement
and the work that my ex-husband
was doing.
Well, late husband.
He died now.
>> So when the community
decided to build a school,
they asked me, because they were
my friends from my hometown.
They knew what I'm doing.
And they asked me to
bring the whole team.
It was 16 people.
We called ourselves
game technicians.
It was this magic
theater kind of--
we had a lot of fun doing it.
Yeah.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Yeah.
And they asked me
to come and help
them understand, what's
the criteria for a school
that they want?
They were very clear about
what they don't want,
that Soviet Bloc
that was so saturated
by brainwashing in every word.
>> Lack of creativity.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
So it was very clear to
them what they don't want.
But the project,
that game was called
the School of the 21st Century.
Because in '85, it seemed
like the 21st century was
300 years from now, you know?
>> Kind of a magic milestone.
>> Yeah.
It was this unattainable future.
But that's what the
name of the game was.
And the community participated.
There was about 200 people.
And we all flew
from Moscow, even
though that was my-- you know, I
stayed at home with my parents.
But still, I was the
other one from the team
in this community.
And as a result
of this community,
it's just an amazing,
amazing unfolding
that happened from that game.
First of all, the first water
birth center was created.
And they completely
received, absorbed,
and took to their hearts
this whole approach
of respecting babies and
knowing who babies are,
and understanding
how to welcome them,
how to prepare consciously.
So this whole piece of
conscious conception,
conscious pregnancy,
and conscious birth,
conscious parenting
before the school,
because at that time
in Moscow, there
was already this kind
of esoteric knowledge
about all this that we were
building for a few years.
But generally in Russia
and especially in Siberia,
babies were still treated like
everywhere else in the world,
just like a piece of
unconscious flesh.
And birth was terrible.
Don't get me
started on this one.
>> But we'll talk about
that a little later.
>> Right.
So all of this information
was just instantly
received by thousands
of people who
had the brainstorming
mechanism of manifesting
the idea into reality.
So the team from Moscow
met, that team in Siberia,
and, choo!
There came up this
amazing concept
of the school of the pre-school
way of relating to children.
And it was all happening.
It was all sprouting so fast,
because that community became
a very contagious
kind of entity.
In the early '80s there
were three books written
about that in Russian,
but they were more
like newspaper kind of account.
This is what happened.
This is who done it.
This is what, when,
how, you know?
They're amazing books.
I can actually show you.
I have them all in my library.
And 324 communities
sprouted from this one.
>> Was this all over
Russia, including Siberia?
>> Yeah.
All over Russia,
including Moscow.
>> Including Moscow.
>> Yeah.
There was four of
them in Moscow,
and Moscow was the
hardest nut to crack,
because it's so close to this
censorship kind of powers.
In Siberia, things were much
easier, because it was far.
And Boris Yeltsin was at that
time the mayor of our town.
And that community,
that very first one,
created such an incredible
emotional, psychological
landscape of success, you know?
Social success.
Hope.
Housing shortage was solved
unprecedentedly in the county.
So he took all the credit
for that, of course.
[LAUGHTER]
And was instantly
promoted to Moscow--
>> Of course.
Politicians.
>> --where he took all the
credit and became president
of Russia.
And yes, of course, he had to
sign all the papers for all
of this to start happening,
but how he was made to sign all
those papers, that's--
Well, and there's
another story about how
he was made president,
because a friend of ours
was actually his
campaign manager.
And there's a movie, a Hollywood
movie called "Spinning Boris"
that tells the entire back
story of how Boris was elected.
It is absolutely fascinating.
>> Right.
>> And now you're giving
us the rest of the story.
I love this.
>> So how he was nominated,
it's because his county all
of a sudden rated on top of
11 time zones in Russia in all
the--
>> As best place to live.
>> It was the best place
to live all of the sudden.
[LAUGHTER]
And what happened next is
that amazing island of sanity.
First of all,
democracy was created,
because it was a council
running the whole community.
And they had the first in
Russia cable television
where all the council media
was videotaped and transmitted
into every apartment.
And also, they had the
first time in Russia
when every citizen of the
community had a telephone.
At that time, just a
regular landline telephone
was a privilege only for, like--
>> Where families would just
share it if you even got one.
>> And it was a privilege for
members of Communist Party.
The rest of the people had
to stay in line for it.
My parents stood in line for
that landline for 23 years.
>> Yes.
Oh.
[LAUGH]
We had some Russian
friends for many years,
and they explained with their
life was like, and yeah.
>> I wouldn't even
know where to begin.
But that's the thing,
in the community,
everyone had the telephone.
And they would telephone
their opinion or their votes
immediately to where
the council was.
And they were all
watching, you know?
It was very active,
working democracy,
because they were
all interested.
It was all about their
life, about decisions
about the quality of
their being, you know?
It was amazing.
I would love you to
look at my documentary,
"How Dreams Come True."
>> Yes.
And also, there is another
article on my site--
it's called "Russian Games--"
that describes that school.
Because one of the
games that I described
is that one, the School
of the 21st Century.
And it describes what happened.
>> And now other schools since
then based on that principle
have been developed
around the country?
We were going to
go to one of them
last summer where essentially,
the children teach one another
and learn together in saturated
blocks of one subject at a time
where they explore
it until they've
explored to their full potential
of imagination, creativity,
and logic.
>> Yeah.
>> It's beautiful.
So you can read the
description in that article
that I wrote in '93.
And it describes that school
that was created back then
in '85 as an unprecedented
concept of education
for children.
What would you do if you don't
have to comply with anything?
So it was one of those--
>> Standardized tests.
>> No.
No such thing.
>> Yeah.
Exactly.
Oh.
>> So that's the thing.
Sort of in that
community, it was
married as how to work
with babies, with children,
how women came together to do,
you know, their woman's thing.
How men came together to learn
from each other how to be men.
>> Didn't you kind
of play in games?
And when I say play,
I mean that literally.
A new way of being together
and playing together
come out of this among adults,
teenagers, and children?
>> Yes.
>> Because that's what's lost.
>> I know.
So this is all
described in there.
I don't want to take
any more of our time.
But this is the thing, that
those communities became
islands of dreams coming true
in the middle of Soviet Russia,
you know?
It was early '80s.
It was mid '80s.
And basically, it
was rocking the boat
in such a profound
way between the games
and the communities
building and all this.
Mothers snapping off
of that mass hypnosis
and wanting to not go
to state institution
and homeschool their
children, or just
come together in the community.
It was an amazing, amazing time.
If only Gorbachev would
not be such a lame leader
and supported a
little bit instead
of putting a wet blanket
on all of this moment.
You see, for the government
he was a bit too soft,
and for the people he wasn't
intelligent enough to really--
the window was open.
He could have done so
much good by just simply
not being in the way.
Just letting people do
what they need to do.
And supporting a little bit.
But you know, all this
billions of humanitarian aid
that was pouring from the West,
people never saw a dime of it.
It all landed up
somewhere in the--
>> Same small pockets.
>> Same few.
[LAUGH]
Same few small pockets.
And yeah.
If only it had just a
little bit of support,
Russia could be heaven
on Earth already.
It was such a momentum there.
But going back to Anastasia--
>> Anastasia.
The Western presentation,
Anastasia, just because I
hadn't set that up yet.
Yes.
The series of books.
So many people have
fallen in love with.
>> Right.
Right.
Russian name is "Anas-tasea."
>> Anastasia.
OK.
Good to know that.
>> And is she real?
Yes.
But not just her.
There is thousands of
Anastasias out there.
And the real story is so
much more powerful and so
much more beautiful than
what's written in the books.
But it doesn't have
that personable--
you know, all those women
in all those communities
know basically what is.
How to play with
children, how to--
>> I have a question about that.
One of the things that
was brought up repeatedly
in the books was about the
notion of a group of people
that had retained their
knowledges through time,
who the author Vladimir Megré
called the Vedruss people.
Now that part of the lore,
you being from Siberia,
was there any truth in that?
Were there people who
were said to have still
had their knowledges
intact at that time?
>> Not in that sense.
>> OK.
The old people are
broken, and no.
I would have known
if there is anybody,
because I was always on the--
>> The leading edge.
>> --cutting edge of
whatever it is, you know?
[LAUGH]
>> So in fact, where did
Vladimir get his inspiration
then?
Was it from the villages?
>> He probably met one of those
girls from the community that
blew his mind, you know?
His business, kind of--
>> Yeah.
>> --small mind of just
the Soviet education.
And she probably just shared--
>> Shared her vision and
understanding and experience
of it, which was
still beautiful.
>> It is beautiful.
It is beautiful.
>> The point is--
>> It's much larger.
It wasn't one girl.
>> And it wasn't
something in the future.
It was already happening.
It was already
marching the country.
By the time his books came out,
basically the whole movement
was on decline already
because of the nightmare
of the sociopolitical,
economical kind of situation
created by the government,
by the mafia, by--
>> Yes.
>> You know?
>> Greedy interests.
>> But-- yeah.
>> And so maybe the
beauty of that series,
to resurrect it and have it
go into English much later is
to bring this back now, because
these little communities based
on the Anastasia books are
now popping up in America,
in Europe, and all over.
>> Australia, Africa.
I am seeing them everywhere.
And that's the thing.
You see, those real accounts,
those dry, very sort
of precise accounts, there
is three books about them.
They never went anywhere.
>> We needed a better story.
>> You put a chicken
there, and it just goes.
[LAUGHTER]
>> You're absolutely right.
And you know what?
I guess, more power to Vladimir
for putting it out there
in a way that people
are attracted to.
>> Exactly.
>> Because one thing the books
said that really struck me is
that the girl he was talking
to said, please use my words,
because they're precise.
And when we spoke with
his English publisher,
Leonid Sharashkin,
who is also Russian,
and has his child in one of
those schools in Russia right
now--
they moved back-- he
said that he obviously
got his information
from somewhere else,
because he was simply an
entrepreneur and not really
prone to that kind of quality
of thought on his own.
>> Yeah.
>> Which, that's what I
got, is he did get something
of a higher nature that spoke--
and those words spoke through
and have touched millions
and millions of hearts.
>> Absolutely.
>> So one of these girls
has somehow emerged--
>> Somehow she impressed him so
much by just telling him what
is happening.
But he made himself a
central figure of the--
>> There you go.
>> --of the whole thing.
And that's the thing, you know?
Sometimes legend has
more power to inspire
than the actual events.
>> And there was truth
within all of it.
In the actual
information is truth.
>> Yeah.
That's what I'm saying, that
the real story is much more
powerful and much
bigger, but the books
are the ones that are making it
delivered to the mass mentality
now.
>> When we're looking for change
en masse all over the world.
>> Right.
>> So I say, thank
you, Vladimir.
Thank you, whoever the girl was.
Thank you and your husband
for having been really
at the core of this movement
that resulted in this,
and are all having access
to this incredible vision
that we can create
for ourselves now.
It's just beautiful.
It brought tears to my eyes
when I was reading the words
about the way of dealing
with nature and birth and all
of the concepts within.
And here I'm sitting
before a woman
that was really central to
the development of that.
>> Well, I was the
going between, you know.
I was just knowing
the right people,
because I met Igor Charkovsky
in Moscow who was coming up
with all these ideas.
For me, it was the
last thing on my mind,
working with babies
and children.
I was an actress.
I was taking over the world
and playing with my husband.
But see, the thing is
that Anastasia inspired--
I lost.
>> Yeah.
That's OK.
>> I was going to say something.
>> Well, Anastasia certainly
has inspired myself.
It's inspired many of our
viewers, my son, his generation
to a great deal.
>> Yeah.
Well, there is, you
know, the full story--
not the full story, but at least
the bigger scope of the story.
Russian games and
How Dreams Come True
on my website and
my documentary,
"How Dreams Come True,"
that I will give you a copy.
>> And we'll encourage
people to watch that.
And meanwhile, I
just want to wrap up
this portion of
our conversation.
And thank you so much,
because we had not
at all planned on going
here, and I'm so glad we did.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I believe it's
important to honor
all of the ways in which this
profound information makes
its way into our
hearts and minds.
While Megré's Anastasia may or
may not have been a beautiful
blonde who lived in a little
flowing dress in the Siberian
tundra, the knowledge of
Anastasia is very real.
It gives us hope
that we can create
our world in a new
way, one that sustains
our life force, creativity,
joy, and respect for all living
things.
Until next time, thanks
for watching CMN.